# Production-Log-Analysis
Production logging is a branch of formation evaluation and well logging that deals with finding out the well performance and problems in a completed producing well. Production logging provides down hole measurements of fluid properties on a zone by zone basis to yield information about the type of fluid movement within and near the well bore. These measurements provide the well operator with detailed information on the nature and behaviour of fluids in the well during production or injection. Python is a user friendly, open source programming language that is very easy to learn. Also, it is very powerful tool for data science as it is well supported by libraries that are specially made for data scientists. Hence, finding an application in the oil and gas industry which has TBs and TBs of data generated from the fields. 

Conventionally, the production log data from an oilfield are stored in specified file formats. The log data is stored in dlis,las or lis format. This kind of data files require softwares to be read and presented. The softwares generally used in the industry are Techlog by Schlumberger, Well Log Viewer by Microsoft, etc. Furthermore, the interpretation of such data also requires use of such softwares. These software packages are paid and cannot be accessed by everyone. Hence, an alternative way must be thought of to read and view such files. The project is aimed at use of Python for production log data reading and interpretation. Hence, this project describes the methodology of reading and extracting the data from the dlis files with use of Python library dlisio. The project further describes a methodology of plotting of logs with the help of Python libraries, i.e., data visualisation and provides an interpretation of production log data from a well in Volve field which was operated by Equinor for development and production. The data from Volve field was made public in 2018 for research, study and development purposes. This dataset has helped us develop this new methodology of interpretation of production logs. Logging operation serves as one of the most crucial job in whole Oil extraction cycle. They provide visual and representation of the well and the formation by indirect measurements made sending the tool downhole. This process generates a long visual data of the well, which to be analysed by a specialist. This analysis is generally a time taking process as it solely relies on the human insights. In addition, there always a chance of human error while inspecting the generating log visually. In order to optimize data interpretation and minimize the errors, by using the techniques of data science, we can automate the basic interpretation process using the RAW data files. 

This Repository will be dealing with codes related to Production Logging only.
